hey how's it going guys this is Dave 2d
and this is my review of the HP Spectre
x-360 so this is a notebook that's been
out for two three months so this review
is kind of late but quite a few of my
viewers have been asking me to do this
review so I thought I should finally do
one it's a notebook that's made by HP
and was co designed by Microsoft so they
helped with the hardware design they
helped with some software stuff and yeah
here's the review now some of you guys
are pretty upset when it ripped open
that ps4 box so I'll do this one nice
and slow it's a black box that has a
soft touch finish and when you pop the
lid there's foam on the bottom side of
the lid which is nice
the notebook itself is on top and
underneath there's a box and if you open
it there's an AC adapter and a bunch of
pamphlets now my review unit came with a
neoprene sleeve it's a really thin
material and it's clearly not designed
as some kind of like super protective
casing but it'll protect the finish and
it's cool that they give you one at all
and it also has a specter logo stamped
into the material which is a nice touch
the top surface of the notebook is
aluminum it's not as smooth of a texture
as a MacBook it's a little rougher and
because of that it's actually easier to
hold than MacBooks the HP logo up top is
subtle and it looks pretty professional
there's also a groove at the top here
which is more like a design accent than
anything else now in the bottom surface
there's four rubber feet they're grippy
and they're actually really soft and
you'll see why in a bit there's also two
down firing speakers and an air intake
vent that runs along here you can pop
the bottom lid off by removing some Torx
screws and the first thing you'll notice
is how big the battery is it's a 56
water hour battery but it covers like
two-thirds of the surface area it's
really large the ram is soldered on and
there's an mSATA SSD up here there's
really not much you can do on the inside
but at the very least if you need to you
can replace the drive and you can
replace the battery
the unit I'm reviewing is the Microsoft
signature edition so it has a two core
Broadwell i7 running at 2.4 gigahertz 13
inch 1080p touchscreen Intel HD 5500
integrated graphics 8 gigs of ram 256
Drive all for 1150 now it comes in
cheaper variants some of them starting
at 900 and you can also get one with a
quad HD screen for 1400 the sides of the
notebook are polished and it gives the
specter an aesthetic that's really
different from any other notebooks out
there so they didn't copy any one and it
still looks really awesome so they did a
really good job on the right side of the
notebook we have a Windows button for
when you're in tablet mode volume rocker
mini DisplayPort HDMI port two USB 3
ports and a headphone jack
I try to both of the video outputs and
they work fine on the left side of the
notebook there's an AC socket exhaust
vent one more USB 3 port power button
and an SD card slot the SD card sit
pretty flush when they're inserted so
that's always a nice thing in terms of
dimensions it's the same width as a
13-inch retina MacBook Pro but it's
slightly longer and weighs around 3.2
pounds it's heavier than the average
ultrabook in 2015 but it's not heavy by
any means it's also a little thicker
than your average ultrabook the specter
is as thick as a 13 inch retina MacBook
Pro but it's still very portable and
easy to carry around there isn't very
much keyboard flux which is good there's
a little bit of screen flex but the
whole chassis just feels really durable
they did a great job on build quality
the main feature of this notebook is
probably the super special hinge which
lets you rotate the screen all the way
around if you want to you can obviously
use the notebook in its normal state
just like a regular notebook and does a
great job in this regular mode you can
also set it up in stand mode which is
theoretically for presentations and tent
mode which they claim is for play
touchscreen jeans but I mean I tried
both of these modes for a couple weeks
and they just really aren't useful
especially for presentations at work
it just wasn't useful for me and the
last mode is a tablet mode which in
theory makes this a hybrid device it is
usable like you are theoretically
holding a tablet shaped object but it's
really cumbersome all right let me
explain when you take the notebook and
you fold it backwards the top surface so
that a book closes in on the bottom
surface of the notebook and those soft
rubber feet are there to prevent it from
scratching but you notice how there's a
huge gap between the two halves so
that's where you'll often hold it and
the edges kind of dig into your hand
because of the sheer weight of the
device so a 3.2 pound tablet is an urban
AMA to hold and there's also that
keyboard on the back it's deactivated
when it's folded like this so the
keystrokes don't register but it's just
really uncomfortable to use but here's
the deal the whole folding screen thing
is an optional feature right we're not
forced to use it in this mode but it's
available to use if you are so inclined
so it doesn't hurt to have it there but
it's not super useful the keyboard is
really good aside from the hole up and
down arrows being at the same level as
the left and right keys I think they
really nailed this keyboard there's only
one stage of backlighting and when you
turn off the back light the toggle
switch stays lit which I think some
people find annoying but it's seriously
a really good keyboard
the trackpad on this thing is big it's
like iPhone 6 big it works really well
though and it's actually one of my
favorite track pads on Windows notebooks
right now it's smooth it's well textured
and there's no jumping cursors and stuff
my only complaint though is that because
of the width of this thing even after
using it for two weeks I would sometimes
miss click when trying to right-click
like I would be pressing too far over to
the left so it's a very minor annoyance
but I just don't think anyone needs a
trackpad this wide it doesn't really add
anything other than to confuse muscle
memories so when you're using like other
notebooks but aside from that this is a
really good trackpad the screen is
topped here it's a touchscreen 1920 by
1080 IPS panel with really good viewing
angles personally I'd skip the more
expensive quad HD version because at 13
inches and with this video card the
1080p option feels just right the glare
on the screen is pretty standard for a
glossy finish but because it's a bright
panel it's manageable the colors pop
brightness is good and it also has good
color accuracy as well so a spider reads
it as 97% srgb and 75% Adobe RGB so this
is basically as good as it gets for
notebook screens the webcam up top
records in 1080p here's some footage I
mean I don't use webcam as much but it
seemed pretty good dry speeds are okay
around 500 read and 300 write which is
good enough for basically anything ultra
ebooks are designed to do in terms of
performance okay so for 1080p video
editing it can handle it reasonably well
renders aren't super fast but the
editing process is comfortable in 1080p
the 4k video edits are pretty bad
partially because of the drive speed but
there's also some CPU throttling now it
only throttles a little here and there
during 4k edits but it's really
noticeable during renders so in case you
don't know throttling is when a CPU chip
runs slower for a bit just
the temperatures are getting too hot so
they're only a 10-minute 4k render it
starts off with an estimate of 52
minutes but then as time went by the CPU
got hotter and it throttled it down so
it was running slower and so the
estimated render time gets longer and
longer and longer now the good thing is
that only happens in really CPU
intensive stuff like renders it did
happen in games but it was pretty rare
now speaking of which it gets pretty
average
ultrabook gaming performance it can
comfortably play lighter games like dota
2 and counter-strike at native res even
on higher settings like you'll get 45
frames per second but it's pretty bad
for triple-a 3d titles like Witcher 3 I
was getting single-digit frame rates
even on medium-high settings Spectre
idles at around 20 decibels so it's
basically Sonic when you crank it though
the fan hits 36 decibels now this is
being measured right at the exhaust vent
itself so it's actually a little quieter
in real life I ran the thermal camera
and you can see it here as well the
spectre just runs cool it has a
relatively low temperature while keeping
fan noise down now granted this MacBook
is a higher wattage CPU and it's running
at a higher clock rate but there's a
significant difference in heat output
down firing speakers are never great and
these ones are down firing speakers they
don't get that loud the bass is muted
and it just doesn't sound very good but
that's just down firing ultrabook
speakers free here's what they sound the
AC adapter is 45 watts it's pretty dull
looking and there's no lights on it to
indicate charging but at least it's not
too big okay a little bit about battery
life playing games I got around 2 hours
with screen at max brightness and volume
at about half
it's pretty average for an ultrabook but
I was kind of disappointed I thought I'd
be able to get more just because I was
hoping for some crazy throttling to
happen but yeah that's all I got two
hours playing games on battery I got
around 8 hours of regular use so that's
just browsing the web and doing some
work and the screen was at 80%
brightness and I got about six and a
half hours watching videos from the
drive now I had to watch it at maximum
brightness because I was watching it
outdoors in a park but yeah six and a
half hours videos straight from the
drive now overall I think this is a
great notebook the build quality is good
trackpads good screen is great the
battery life is good the specs are good
now everything about it is really good
quality now the only thing that's kind
of weird to me is that hinge the 360
hinge is something that I mean it gives
it the name that's why it's called the X
360 but it's also a very gimmicky hinge
to me the tablet mode isn't very
comfortable to use the stand up mode and
the tent mode are also just not very
ergonomic to use it's a very interesting
feature but I wouldn't purchase the
notebook based on just that hinge you
probably won't find it that useful but
if you're looking for a great overall
experience in a notebook and you're
willing to pay a bit of a price premium
I think this is a great option that's
the end of the review hope you guys
liked it questions or comments type
below and thumbs if you liked it
subs have you loved it it's been nice
I'll see you guys next time
you